her praise and and changes and so forth the you
mentioned as key positive decisions to admit
women and racially integration non-compulsory
core broaden more graduate programs and so forth
let's continue to talk about any advice that you
would offer to anyone today who's looking toward
the future of how to make a and M even better
during
your your days as faculty member were you aware of
much hazing going on
it's
still students ever freshman particularly come
to your office and share with you their feelings
about being in the core I had I had a few would come
closed door burst into tears say I like a and M but
don't like the core and so therefore I'm gonna have
to leave because it's just the core is just not for
me let's see trying to make sure what should a and M
aspire to be should it aspire to be one of the key top
public institutions in the country
yes I think you
mentioned fine arts as an area to be at added do you
think of any other academic areas that you think a
and M ought to add
no I don't believe so
last I knew I don't know
I was back in the 70s I was part of the group that
welcomed and we had been set up because the
university was always a place where we had a lot of
the three visitors were spinster women from
comparatively small eastern all-female
institutions and they had been fed information
that led them to believe that every one of us was a
hard-nosed male chauvinist so and so and i can't
believe help but believe that we deserve phi beta
kappa as well as baylor or tcu or trinity i'm not at
all knocking them but i think we have the quality to
equal those but i wish we could do that because i
think that would be a very good signal to i think the
addition of the fine
arts
on five eight all
right let's
see we're getting getting close to the end do you
have any aggie stories that you whether they be
true or not aggie stories that you enjoy passing on
i've been thinking about that i came up with some
faculty members well that was a good how
you spell
hubca
he chuted
the game for
the ongoing
he came back with a dove and a woodpecker i'm sure
they had other things but the entree margaret now
he's got a bite of dove shared the woodpecker the
woodpecker another story on the same guy and he
was teaching the play that's based on the sacral
van beachy well also in the department
he's study of the Sacro Donzetti case, so Hupka
invited him to come and talk to the class about it,
so he made a study of the Sacro Donzetti case, and
I'm sure this will be a very interesting talk. I
wish I could stay to hear it.
And then there was, in that same four years,
we were all hired sight unseen.
Anyway, Mr. Childs came with a good officer. We
were at some gathering, he discovered that Frank
Pierce was the speech teacher. All the rest of
the evening, Mr.
Childs went around, teach his speech, doesn't
know Robinson. His speech, doesn't know
Robinson. Frank went to him at the end of the, he
said, Mr. Childs, he said, tell me who this
Robinson is. He said, somebody I should know. Did
any student or anyone ever tease you about being
from Illinois, not being local, not being a Texan?
Oh yes, oh yeah, I got that. I got called a Yankee
every day. I remember one early teacher
evaluation. I don't know actually what the
student meant, he said he wants to impress his
Yankee ideas. Did, did everyone ever tease you?
Did they ever think, indicate they thought you
were liberal or conservative or anything like
that?
Yeah, we had a few essays, you know, here on
liberal issues. I think they could see that I
endorsed them more or less. Let's see, any, any
sad, poignant stories, recollections,
experiences?
Did
the department handle that?
Everybody grieved, of course. Did they ever
contact their families, or flowers for the
funeral? The things you do was rather devastating
to us.
The other young man was killed on Labor Day at
Planners. They had to convince a number of
students. It was a big shock for them. As a matter of
fact, I come to think about it, I didn't. Those
students didn't come to talk to me. I did what I
could to try to get the man to let me. Now, were you
and the women in your life, were you all
Presbyterians early on here? Here we were, I grew
up a Baptist. Baptist. And when we went to, went to
my first teaching job, we went from town, which was
no Baptist church, probably wouldn't have
sampled it had there been. So I went with Margaret
to the Presbyterian and fell in love with the
church. When you moved here, which church did you
join? We went to, we joined in Pride. It was much
closer. You see, we were at the field. Yeah.
And we liked it very much. What, in the, in the late
40s, early 50s, what was the relationship between
Bryan and College Station? When you all first
moved here, there wasn't a good grocery store in
College Station. Where'd you all do your
shopping? There actually
were a couple of stores.
There was Charlie's in the north over
there, called the Knife Depot Travel Agency. And a
Mike Smith had a grocery store there. What was
there right here to the north and west toward the
railroad on Jersey? Was there, weren't there
some, was Maidly's Pharmacy there yet? Yeah,
Maidly's Pharmacy. For those that don't remember
Maidly's, describe that. Well,
it was a good old fashioned drug store. They had all
the stuff. It was sort of a, everybody knew Mr.
Maidly. To hang out for the kids. It
was quite an institution, which a lot of us still
miss. What else was there along there? I believe
Brewers was. No
alcohol in Brazos County then? Went across
Whiskey Bridge. And that went way back, didn't it?
Did
you and your family have any interaction with the
students living in the project houses? Well,
the project houses, they were on their way out, I
believe, if I recall correctly. But we did not
have. Okay, let's see, we talked about coaches.
Okay, let's, as we're really getting close to the
end, let's make believe that someone walks up to
you now and gives you a check worth at least
hundreds of thousands of dollars, if not more than
that. And the only restriction to that gift is you
must pass it on to Texas A&M. But you can decide the
use or uses. Use or uses to which that money would be
put. What would you give, if you had lots of money to
give away to A&M, what would you give it for? What
are your pet projects?
It's a strange thing to be done with salad, but it's
certainly not bricks
and
mortar.
Is there any special subject area in the library? I
want to do something for the school center.
I certainly
want to direct all of it where it benefits people. I
suppose what I actually would do is find out where
the needs are and what some of those areas actually
want and actually need. All right, let me conclude
then by thanking you very much and by reminding you
if you have any papers, personal papers,
reminiscences or any sort about the A&M years that
you'd be willing for the archives to copy, please
do so. Okay. Because we need as many actual
personal items as possible. Well, actually I
pretty well read that stuff. Okay.
See, what I wish more than anything else would be
the letters that students wrote home. Because
there they were usually very confidential and
very honest about what was happening and who was
helping them. I had to vacate my office. I gave most
of them to them. I
gave the Folsom
and Twain to my
daughter. Well, let me thank you very much. Thank
you.